
### BREAKING CHANGES

- macOS must be at least 11 to run Companion. This is due to nodejs dropping support for older versions.

### 📣 CORE FEATURES AND IMPROVEMENTS

- Support more than 99 pages.
  - New configs will default to a single page.
  - Pages can be reordered
- Modernise action advancement
  - Per delay action has been removed and replaced with a new 'Wait' action.
  - A new 'action group' action exists, which can contain other actions. This allows finer control over action execution and order
- DB file is now written with SQLite. This will make it more resilient to crashes, improves performance when saving and avoids issues with the db being too big
- Custom variables are renamed from $(internal:custom_test) to $(custom:test). The old names still work, but will be removed in a future version
- Support VEC footpedal as a surface
- Check connection Stream Deck Studio devices for available firmware updates
- Connection labels can be edited while connections are disabled
- Add $(internal:uptime) variable
- Performance improvements for variables
- Performance improvements for button drawing
- Option to dismiss 'resize grid to surfaces' prompt
- Allow import and export to be done in YAML
- Filename of exports can be customised
- Command line option to disable admin ui password
- Add one time event trigger
- Support satellite over websockets
- Connection of actions and feedbacks can be changed
- Improve module status clarity
- Improve custom variables collapsed view
- Support HTTP GET for module variables
- Backend code refactoring to make Companion more robust
- Modules can now be built with node22

### 🐞 BUG FIXES

- TCP protocols not disconnecting clients when disabling server
- Allow some missing expression operators
- TCP/UDP api not accepting button text or custom variables containing slashes
- Surface rotation not being considered when checking if a surface overflows the grid bounds
