docs/3_config/settings/surfaces.md, before:

More details on supported surfaces are available in the chapter on [Surfaces](#7_surfaces.md).

- **Watch for new USB Devices**
  Companion can watch for newly connected USB Surfaces if this is enabled.
  If disabled, you will have to trigger a refresh yourself for Companion to use newly connected StreamDecks.

- **Watch for Discoverable Remote Surfaces**
  Companion can scan the network for network connected Stream Decks and Companion Satellite installations.

- **Enable direct connection to Streamdecks**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Stream Deck devices directly (not using the Elgato software)
  When this is disabled, the Elgato software can be used

- **Enable connected X-keys**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to XKeys devices.

- **Use old layout for X-keys**
  Whether to use the old layout for XKeys devices. This uses a compact layout that allows the surfaces to fit on multiple 8x4 pages.  
  We recommend disabling this, it will be removed in a future version of Companion.

- **Enable connected Loupedeck and Razer Stream Controller devices**
  Whether to enable support for connecting Loupedeck and Razer Stream Controller devices.

- **Enable connected Contour Shuttle**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Contour Shuttle devices.

- **Enable connected Blackmagic Atem Micro Panel**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Blackmagic Atem Micro Panel devices.
  When this is enabled you must not have the Atem software open, as it will conflict.

- **Enable connected VEC Footpedal**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to VEC Footpedal devices.

- **Enable connected 203 Systems Mystrix**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to 203 Systems Mystrix

Commit message:

feat: support Resolve Replay Editor

docs/3_config/settings/surfaces.md, after:

More details on supported surfaces are available in the chapter on [Surfaces](#7_surfaces.md).

- **Watch for new USB Devices**
  Companion can watch for newly connected USB Surfaces if this is enabled.
  If disabled, you will have to trigger a refresh yourself for Companion to use newly connected StreamDecks.

- **Watch for Discoverable Remote Surfaces**
  Companion can scan the network for network connected Stream Decks and Companion Satellite installations.

- **Enable direct connection to Streamdecks**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Stream Deck devices directly (not using the Elgato software)
  When this is disabled, the Elgato software can be used

- **Enable connected X-keys**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to XKeys devices.

- **Use old layout for X-keys**
  Whether to use the old layout for XKeys devices. This uses a compact layout that allows the surfaces to fit on multiple 8x4 pages.  
  We recommend disabling this, it will be removed in a future version of Companion.

- **Enable connected Loupedeck and Razer Stream Controller devices**
  Whether to enable support for connecting Loupedeck and Razer Stream Controller devices.

- **Enable connected Contour Shuttle**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Contour Shuttle devices.

- **Enable connected Blackmagic Atem Micro Panel and Resolve Replay Editor**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to Blackmagic Atem Micro Panel and Resolve Replay Editor devices.
  When this is enabled you must not have the Atem software open, as it will conflict.

- **Enable connected VEC Footpedal**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to VEC Footpedal devices.

- **Enable connected 203 Systems Mystrix**
  Whether to enable support for connecting to 203 Systems Mystrix
