docs/7_surfaces/contour_shuttle.md, before:

It is possible to use the Contour ShuttleXpress and ShuttlePro v1 and v2 with Companion (since v3.1.0).

Enable support for it in Companion's settings and rescan for USB devices.

The layout closely matches the device.

For the shuttle ring you have the choice of defining:

- **rotate-left/rotate-right actions**: these will execute once for each "stop" on the ring (+/- 7),
- **button press/release actions**: press actions will repeat at a with increasing frequency proportional as the ring is turned away from the neutral position. Use `$(internal:shuttle)` to determine direction and magnitude; `$(internal:shuttle-sign)` if all you need is direction. When the ring returns to zero a single release action will be performed.

The contour shuttle defines two internal variables:

- `$(internal:shuttle)` -7 to +7; indicates the current shuttle position
- `$(internal:shuttle-sign)` -1, 0, or 1 to indicate the direction of action. (Multiply this by your "increment" value.)
- `$(internal:jog)` indicates the rotational direction of the jog wheel for 20 ms after each click-stop (+/-1).

![Contour Shuttle template](images/contour-shuttle.png?raw=true 'Contour Shuttle template')

[Contour Shuttle template](assets/contour-shuttle-template.companionconfig)

Commit message:

Update so that shuttle ring emits only rotate events
- Define new `shuttleRepeat` button that accepts repeated actions
- Move the right-button (on the Shuttle Pro v2) over one to accomodate the new `shuttleRepeat` location.
- Update documentation, including the template.
- Remove "requires restart" from the Settings->Surface page, since it doesn't seem to need one any more (as suggested in the page header)
- move the shuttle variables to instance variables instead of local ones. It just seems a bit cleaner and a clearer indication that they are persistent. (It might also be needed to clear the interval on disconnections.)
- repeat action is set to "gentle acceleration" rather than a simple linear response. I feel that this provides a good compromise between fine-control on one end and fast action on the other.

docs/7_surfaces/contour_shuttle.md, after:

It is possible to use the Contour ShuttleXpress and ShuttlePro v1 and v2 with Companion (since v3.1.0; note: support for very old versions of ShuttlePro v1 was added in v4.1.3)

You must enable it in Companion's Settings > Surfaces section and rescan for USB devices. (You do not need to restart for the setting to "take"... since at least v4.0)

The button layout closely matches the device.

For the shuttle ring you have the choice of two different buttons:

- ***row2/col2***: a rotate action will be sent once for each "stop" on the ring (+/- 7, including 0),
- ***row2/col3***: a rotate action will be sent will repeat at a with increasing frequency proportional as the ring is turned away from the neutral position. Use the variable: `$(internal:shuttle)` if you need to determine direction and magnitude. (No action is sent when the shuttle returns to 0)
- NOTE: In either case, ***rotate-left*** is emitted when the jog is to the left of zero (the neutral position) and ***rotate-right*** is sent when the jog is to the right of zero, regardless of the physical rotation direction.

The contour shuttle defines two internal variables:

- `$(internal:shuttle)` (-7 to +7): indicates the current shuttle position
- `$(internal:jog)` (+1/-1): indicates the rotational direction of the jog wheel for 20 ms after each click-stop.

![Contour Shuttle template](images/contour-shuttle.png?raw=true 'Contour Shuttle template')

[Contour Shuttle template](assets/contour-shuttle-template.companionconfig)
