docs/3_config/surfaces.md, before:

This tab allows you to configure your Stream Decks and other **Surfaces**.

If any of your Stream Decks are not showing up, press the **Rescan USB** button. You can avoid needing to do this by enabling **Watch for new USB Devices** on the settings page.

![Surfaces](images/surfaces.png?raw=true 'Surfaces')

Here you can see all your current surfaces, both local and connected over Satellite, as well as any available emulators.

Click the **Settings** button next to a device to change how that surface behaves.

Note: the exact list of settings varies by surface type.

- **Surface Group**: Assign this surface to a [Surface Group](#3_config/surfaces/groups.md).
- **Use Last Page At Startup**: Whether the surface should remember the last page it was on at startup, or use the Startup Page setting instead.
- **Startup Page**: If 'Use Last Page At Startup' is not enabled, the page the Surface will show at startup.
- **X Offset in grid**: If the device is smaller than the 8x4 grid, you can adjust the position of the surface within the grid
- **Y Offset in grid**: If the device is smaller than the 8x4 grid, you can adjust the position of the surface within the grid
- **Brightness**: The brightness of the buttons.
- **Button rotation**: If you've physically rotated your Surface, use this to match the button orientation.
- **Never pin code lock**: Exclude this device from pin-code locking.

In the settings for each **Emulator**, you can configure additional behaviours.

Commit message:

Add options to to restrict page access
- Options are added to `SurfaceGroupConfig`
- Modify *EditPanel.tsx* to add the new options
- Modify `SurfaceGroup.setCurrentPage` to handle page restrictions
- Import/Export new fields (pages are converted similarly to `startup_page_id` and `last_page_id`
- (Modify `InternalPageIdDropdown` to allow multiple values)

Tighten up page-restriction enforcement in Groups.ts

- ensure as best as possible that page restrictions are enforced (a) at startup and (b) even if enabled after visiting now-restricted pages.

- Update documentation ("Getting Started Guide")

docs/3_config/surfaces.md, after:

This tab allows you to configure your Stream Decks and other **Surfaces**.

If any of your Stream Decks are not showing up, press the **Rescan USB** button. You can avoid needing to do this by enabling **Watch for new USB Devices** on the settings page.

![Surfaces](images/surfaces.png?raw=true 'Surfaces')

Here you can see all your current surfaces, both local and connected over Satellite, as well as any available emulators.

Click the **Settings** button next to a device to change how that surface behaves.

Note: the exact list of settings varies by surface type.

- **Surface Name/Group Name**: A name for easy identification.
- **Surface Group**: Assign this surface to a [Surface Group](#3_config/surfaces/groups.md).
- **Use Last Page At Startup**: Whether the surface should remember the last page it was on at startup, or use the Startup Page setting instead.
- **Home Page/Startup Page**: If 'Use Last Page At Startup' is _disabled_, the page the Surface will show at startup.
- **Current Page/Last Page**: If 'Use Last Page At Startup' is _enabled_, the page the Surface will show at startup. (Setting this while the surface is attached will also set the current page for the surface or group.)
- **Restrict pages accessible to this group**: If enabled, a multi-select dropdown will allow you to select which page(s) the surface or group may access. See the [Page Permissions](#3_config/surfaces/pagepermissions.md) instructions for additional details. (v4.2)
- **Allow Swipe to Change Pages (SD Plus)**: If enabled, swiping horizontally on the LCD Panel of a Stream Deck+ will change pages (v4.2)
- **Horizontal Offset in grid**: If the device is smaller than the 8x4 grid, you can adjust the position of the surface within the grid
- **Vertical Offset in grid**: If the device is smaller than the 8x4 grid, you can adjust the position of the surface within the grid
- **Brightness**: The brightness of the buttons.
- **Surface rotation**: If you've physically rotated your Surface, use this to match the button orientation.
- **Never pin code lock**: Exclude this device from pin-code locking.

In the settings for each **Emulator**, you can configure additional parameters such as the row and column count here.
